---
title: "About the SCP Foundation"
description: The SCP Foundation explained
orientation:
  part: 1
---

## Mission Statement

Operating clandestine and worldwide, the Foundation operates beyond
jurisdiction, empowered and entrusted by every major national government with
the task of containing anomalous objects, entities, and phenomena. These
anomalies pose a significant threat to global security by threatening either
physical or psychological harm.

The Foundation operates to maintain normalcy, so that the worldwide civilian
population can live and go on with their daily lives without fear, mistrust, or
doubt in their personal beliefs, and to maintain human independence from
extraterrestrial, extradimensional, and other extranormal influence.

Our mission is three-fold:

### Secure

The Foundation secures anomalies with the goal of preventing them from falling
into the hands of civilian or rival agencies, through extensive observation and
surveillance and by acting to intercept such anomalies at the earliest
opportunity.

### Contain

The Foundation contains anomalies with the goal of preventing their influence or
effects from spreading, by either relocating, concealing, or dismantling such
anomalies or by suppressing or preventing public dissemination of knowledge
thereof.

### Protect

The Foundation protects humanity from the effects of such anomalies as well as
the anomalies themselves until such time that they are either fully understood
or new theories of science can be devised based on their properties and
behavior. The Foundation may also neutralize or destroy anomalies as an option
of last resort, if they are determined to be too dangerous to be contained.

## Foundation Operations

Foundation covert and clandestine operations are undertaken across the globe in
pursuit of our primary missions.

### Special Containment Procedures

The Foundation maintains an extensive database of information regarding
anomalies requiring Special Containment Procedures, commonly referred to as
"SCPs". The primary Foundation database contains summaries of such anomalies and
emergency procedures for maintaining or re-establishing safe containment in the
case of a containment breach or other event.

Anomalies may take many forms, be it an object, an entity, a location, or a
free-standing phenomenon. These anomalies are categorized into one of several
[Object Classes](/orientation/object-classes) and are either contained at one of
the Foundation's myriad [Secure Facilities](/orientation/secure-facilities) or
contained on-site if relocation is deemed unfeasible.

### Operational Security

The Foundation operates with the utmost secrecy. All Foundation personnel must
observe the [Security Clearance Levels](/orientation/clearance-levels) as well
as need-to-know and compartmentalization of information. Personnel found in
violation of Foundation security protocols will be identified, detained, and
subject to disciplinary action.

### Rival Agencies and Groups of Interest

The Foundation is not the only organization with knowledge of and capability to
interact with or utilize anomalies. While some of these
[Groups of Interest](/orientation/groups-of-interest) have similar goals and may
cooperate with us on issues of global security, many more are opportunistic and
profit-oriented, seeking to adapt or use anomalies to their own ends. Foundation
personnel are instructed to treat individuals from such groups with suspicion at
all times, and collaboration with such groups without the explicit prior consent
of Foundation leadership will be cause for termination or other disciplinary
action.
