---
title: Clearance Levels
part: 3
attribution:
  ogTitle: "Security Clearance Levels"
  adapted: true
---

## Overview

Foundation security clearances granted to personnel represent the highest level
or type of information to which they can be granted access. However, having any
given clearance level does not automatically grant access to all information at
that level: personnel are only granted access to information on a "need-to-know"
basis and at the discretion of the designated disclosure officer overseeing
their respective departments.

### Level 0 (For Official Use Only)

Level 0 security clearances are given to non-essential personnel with no need to
access information regarding anomalous objects or entities in Foundation
containment. Level 0 access is typically held by personnel in non-secured
clerical, logistics, or janitorial positions at facilities with no access to
operational data.

### Level 1 (Confidential)

Level 1 security clearances are given to personnel working in proximity to but
with no direct, indirect, or informational access to anomalous objects or
entities in containment. Level 1 security clearances are typically granted to
personnel working in clerical, logistics, or janitorial positions at facilities
with containment capability or otherwise must handle sensitive information.

### Level 2 (Restricted)

Level 2 security clearances are given to security and research personnel that
require direct access to information regarding anomalous objects and entities in
containment. Most research staff, field agents, and containment specialists hold
a Level 2 security clearance.

### Level 3 (Secret)

Level 3 security clearances are given to senior security and research personnel
that require in-depth data regarding the source, recovery circumstances, and
long-term planning for anomalous objects and entities in containment. Most
senior research staff, project managers, security officers, response team
members, and Mobile Task Force operatives hold a Level 3 security clearance.

### Level 4 (Top Secret)

Level 4 security clearances are given to senior administration that require
access to site-wide and/or regional intelligence as well as long-term strategic
data regarding Foundation operations and research projects. Level 4 security
clearances are typically only held by Site Directors, Security Directors, or
Mobile Task Force Commanders.

### Level 5 (Thaumiel)

Level 5 security clearances are given to the highest-ranking administrative
personnel within the Foundation and grant effectively unlimited access to all
strategic and otherwise sensitive data. Level 5 security clearances are
typically only granted to O5 Council members and selected staff.

## Personnel Classifications

Classifications are assigned to personnel based on their proximity to
potentially dangerous anomalous objects, entities, or phenomena.

### Class A

Class A personnel are those deemed essential to Foundation strategic operations,
and are not allowed direct access to anomalies under any circumstances. When
circumstances require Class A personnel to be in direct proximity to such
anomalies (such as in the case of facilities housing containment units), Class A
personnel are not allowed access to the areas of the facility containing such
anomalies and are to be kept in secured areas at all times. In the case of an
emergency, Class A personnel are to be immediately evacuated to a designated and
secure off-site location. O5 Council members are always Class A personnel.

### Class B

Class B personnel are those deemed essential to local Foundation operations, and
may only be granted access to objects, entities, and anomalies that have passed
quarantine and have been cleared of any potential mind-affecting effects or
memetic agents. In the event of a containment breach or hostile action against a
Foundation facility, Class B personnel are to be evacuated to a designated,
secure off-site location as soon as possible.

### Class C

Class C personnel are personnel with direct access to most anomalies not deemed
strictly hostile or dangerous. Class C personnel that have had direct contact
with potentially mind-affecting or memetic properties may be subject to
mandatory quarantine and psychiatric evaluation as deemed necessary by security
personnel. In the event of a containment breach or hostile action against a
Foundation facility, non-combatant Class C personnel are to either report to
secure lock-down areas or evacuated at the discretion of on-site security
personnel in the case of a site-wide breach or other catastrophic event.

### Class D

Class D personnel are expendable personnel used to handle extremely hazardous
anomalies and are not allowed to come into contact with Class A or Class B
personnel. Class D personnel are typically drawn worldwide from the ranks of
prison inmates convicted of violent crimes, especially those on death row. In
times of duress, Protocol 12 may be enacted, which allows recruitment from other
sources — such as political prisoners, refugee populations, and other civilian
sources — that can be transferred into Foundation custody under plausibly
deniable circumstances. Class D personnel are to be given regular mandatory
psychiatric evaluations and are to be administered an amnestic of at least Class
B strength or terminated at the end of the month at the discretion of on-site
security or medical staff. In the event of a catastrophic site event, Class D
personnel are to be terminated immediately except as deemed necessary by on-site
security personnel.

### Class E

Class E is a provisional classification applied to field agents and containment
personnel that have been exposed to potentially dangerous effects during the
course of securing and establishing initial containment over a newly-designated
anomalous object, entity, or phenomenon. Class E personnel are to be quarantined
as soon as possible, monitored, and screened for potentially harmful changes in
behavior, personality, or physiology, and may only return to duty after being
fully debriefed and cleared by psychiatric and medical staff.

## Staff Titles

These are general occupational titles that are typically used in the Foundation.

### Site Staff

#### Containment Specialist

Containment specialists have two main roles at Foundation facilities. Firstly,
containment teams are called upon to respond to confirmed cases of anomalous
activity to secure and establish initial containment over anomalous objects,
entities, or phenomena and transport them to the nearest Foundation containment
site.

In addition, Foundation containment engineers and technicians are called upon to
devise, refine, and maintain containment units and schemes for objects,
entities, and phenomena in Foundation facilities.

#### Researcher

Researchers are the scientific branch of the Foundation, drawn from the ranks of
the smartest and best-trained research scientists from around the world. With
specialists in every field imaginable, from chemistry and botany to more
esoteric or specialized fields such as theoretical physics and xenobiology, the
goal of the Foundation's research projects is to gain a better understanding of
unexplained anomalies and how they operate.

#### Security Officer

On-site security officers — often referred to simply as guards — at Foundation
facilities are tasked with maintaining physical and information security for
Foundation projects, operations, and personnel. Primarily drawn and recruited
from military, law enforcement, and correctional facility personnel, security
officers are trained in the use of all types of weapons as well as a variety of
contingency plans covering both containment breach incidents as well as hostile
action. These personnel are also responsible for information security, such as
making sure that sensitive documents are not misplaced and that a facility's
computer systems are safe from outside intrusion. They are also often the first
line of defense against hostile outside forces for Foundation facilities.

#### Tactical Response Officer

Response teams — or tactical teams — are highly trained and heavily armed combat
teams tasked with escorting containment teams when dangerous anomalous entities
or hostile Groups of Interest are involved and defending Foundation facilities
against hostile action. Response teams are effectively military units stationed
at major Foundation facilities that are ready to deploy at a moment's notice.

### Field Personnel

#### Field Agent

Field agents are the eyes and ears of the Foundation, personnel trained to look
for and investigate signs of anomalous activity, often undercover with local or
regional law enforcement or embedded in local services such as emergency medical
services and regulatory organizations. As undercover units, field agents are
typically not equipped to deal with confirmed cases of anomalous activity; once
such an incident has been confirmed and isolated, field agents will typically
call for assistance from the nearest field containment team with the means to
safely secure and contain such anomalies.

#### Mobile Task Force Operative

Mobile Task Forces are specialist units comprised of veteran field personnel
drawn from all over the Foundation. These task forces are mobilized to deal with
threats of a specific nature and can include anything from field researchers
specializing in a particular type of anomaly to heavily armed combat units
tasked to secure certain types of hostile anomalous entity. See the Task Forces
document for more detailed information.

### Administration

#### Site Director

Site directors for major Foundation facilities are the highest-ranking personnel
at that location and are responsible for the continued, safe operation of the
site and all of its contained anomalies and projects. All major departmental
directors report directly to the Site Director, who in turn reports to the O5
Council.

#### O5 Council Member

The O5 Council refers to the committee consisting of the highest-ranking
directors of the Foundation. With complete access to all information regarding
anomalies in containment, the O5 Council oversees all Foundation operations
worldwide and directs its long-term strategic plans. Due to the sensitivity of
their positions, O5 Council members must not come into direct contact with any
anomalous object, entity, or phenomenon. Furthermore, the identities of all O5
Council members is classified; all council members are referred to only by their
numeric designation (O5-1 through O5-13).
