---
title: Secure Facilities
description: An overview of the Foundation's secure facilities
orientation:
  part: 4
---

## Facility Designations

The Foundation maintains and operates a large number of facilities worldwide,
from small outposts with only a handful of staff to major Sites with thousands
of personnel.

### Site

Foundation facilities designated as Sites are _covert_ facilities, meaning that
while existence of the facility is known to the public, such facilities are
often disguised under government or corporate fronts. Sites are often built in
locations in relatively close proximity to civilian populations, where
facilities would require such cover.

### Area

Foundation facilities designated as Areas are _clandestine_ facilities, meaning
that civilians are not aware of their existence at all. Such facilities are
often built far away from civilian populations and may contain highly dangerous
anomalies; the vast majority of Areas have extreme fail-safe measures such as
on-site nuclear warheads.

## Facility Sections

### Sector

Sectors are sections of Sites or Areas that are designated for specific
purposes, such as containment, research, or storage. The exact usage of Sectors
vary from facility to facility and is dependent on the facility's primary
purpose and size.

### Unit

Units are self-contained sections of Sites or Areas such as those containing
Biological or Dimensional anomalies and are designed to self-seal in case of a
breach or other catastrophic event. All personnel entering or exiting a Unit
must typically undergo a full decontamination procedure.

## Prefixes

These prefixes are often used to denote specializations of facilities or
facility sections and are generally only used in internal communication.

### Armed

Armed denotes a facility or facility section with abnormally high physical
security concerns, either due to containment of violent hostile entities or
threat of outside attack. Such facilities typically have a large amount of
military-grade weaponry and vehicles as well as a disproportionately large
number of permanent security staff; in the case of a full facility, this
typically entails a detachment of at least battalion or regiment strength.

### Biological (Bio)

Biological containment facilities or facility sections deal with infectious or
otherwise biohazardous anomalies and are both isolated and self-contained to
prevent the possible escape of such anomalies.

### Containment

Containment facilities or facility sections are primarily equipped and intended
for the containment of anomalous objects, entities, or phenomena.

### Dimensional (Dim)

Dimensional containment facilities or facility sections deal with
extradimensional apertures or anomalies exhibiting inconsistent or warped
spacetime.

### Humanoid

Humanoid containment facilities or facility sections primarily deal with
sentient, sapient human or near-human entities capable of understanding and
complying with instructions. These are essentially analogous to a prison
facility for anomalous entities.

### Protected

Protected facilities and facility sections are "safe zones" kept free of
anomalous influence. No anomalies are allowed within these facilities at any
time.

### Provisional

Provisional facilities are those that are established or built around an
immobile anomaly. Provisional facilities typically contain only a single
anomaly.

### Reliquary

Reliquary facilities or facility sections are designed for handling artifacts
and objects of religious or historical significance.

### Research

Research facilities or facility sections are designed for either the handling
and study of anomalies or anomalous materials or research and development of new
containment schemes and methods.

### Storage

Storage facilities or facility sections are intended for long-term storage of
non-anomalous or inert anomalous objects with no risk of autonomous interaction.

## Miscellaneous

These are Foundation facilities or locations that do not fall under the standard
organizational structure.

### Observation Posts

Observation Posts are tiny facilities established in a multitude of locations
worldwide. Often limited to small standalone buildings or single units within
larger buildings, Observation Posts are typically used to monitor regional
communications for flagged content, as well as monitor nearby Foundation
facilities. Many Observation Posts are also used as secure communications hubs
or safe-houses by undercover Foundation agents.

## Facilities List (Abridged)

The following is a partial list of notable Foundation facilities. Please note
that this list is incomplete; many Foundation facilities are not listed here due
to operational security requirements, because their purpose and/or location are
classified. Note that many facility designations have also been recycled over
time as the original facilities are decommissioned or otherwise no longer in
use, and that the full list of Foundation Facilities is only available to
employees with Level 5 Security Clearance.

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents (click to expand)</summary>

- [Sites](#sites)
  - [Site-01 (Protected Site-01, O5 HQ)](#site-01-protected-site-01-o5-hq)
  - [~~Site-5~~](#site-5)
  - [Site-06-3 (Humanoid Containment Site-06-3)](#site-06-3-humanoid-containment-site-06-3)
  - [Site-11](#site-11)
  - [Site-15](#site-15)
  - [Site-17](#site-17)
  - [Site-18](#site-18)
  - [Site-19](#site-19)
  - [Site-23 (Storage Site-23)](#site-23-storage-site-23)
  - [Site-28 (Containment Site-28)](#site-28-containment-site-28)
  - [Site-36](#site-36)
  - [Site-38](#site-38)
  - [Site-41](#site-41)
  - [Site-43 (Research and Containment Site-43)](#site-43-research-and-containment-site-43)
  - [Site-45 (Research Site-45)](#site-45-research-site-45)
  - [Site-45](#site-45)
  - [Site-54 (Integrated Containment Site-54)](#site-54-integrated-containment-site-54)
  - [Site-55](#site-55)
  - [Site-56](#site-56)
  - [Site-62 (Dimensional Site-62)](#site-62-dimensional-site-62)
  - [Site-64 (Storage Site-64)](#site-64-storage-site-64)
  - [Site-65](#site-65)
  - [Site-66 (Biological Containment Site-66, Bio-Site-66)](#site-66-biological-containment-site-66-bio-site-66)
  - [Site-73](#site-73)
  - [Site-76](#site-76)
  - [Site-77 (Storage Site-77)](#site-77-storage-site-77)
  - [Site-81 (Research and Containment Site-81)](#site-81-research-and-containment-site-81)
  - [Site-83](#site-83)
  - [Site-84](#site-84)
  - [Site-87 (Research Site-87)](#site-87-research-site-87)
  - [Site-88 (Humanoid Containment Site-88)](#site-88-humanoid-containment-site-88)
  - [Site-91 (Xenobiological Research and Containment Site-91)](#site-91-xenobiological-research-and-containment-site-91)
  - [Site-95 (Biological Research and Containment Site-95, Bio-Site-95)](#site-95-biological-research-and-containment-site-95-bio-site-95)
  - [Site-98 (Dimensional Research Site-98)](#site-98-dimensional-research-site-98)
  - [Site-103 (Biological Containment Site-103)](#site-103-biological-containment-site-103)
  - [Site-104 (Biological Research Site-104)](#site-104-biological-research-site-104)
  - [Site-118](#site-118)
  - [Site-120 (Research and Reliquary Dimensional Containment Site-120)](#site-120-research-and-reliquary-dimensional-containment-site-120)
  - [Site-184](#site-184)
  - [Site-228](#site-228)
  - [Site-234](#site-234)
  - [Site-246](#site-246)
  - [Site-322](#site-322)
  - [Site-666](#site-666)
- [Areas](#areas)
  - [Area-02 (Armed Reliquary and Containment Area-02)](#area-02-armed-reliquary-and-containment-area-02)
  - [Area-12 (Biological Research Area-12)](#area-12-biological-research-area-12)
  - [Area-14 (Armed Biological Containment Area-14)](#area-14-armed-biological-containment-area-14)
  - [Area-27 (Reliquary Area-27)](#area-27-reliquary-area-27)
  - [Area-32 (Lunar Area-32)](#area-32-lunar-area-32)
  - [Area-179](#area-179)

</details>

### Sites

#### Site-01 (Protected Site-01, O5 HQ)

Site-01 is a safe zone that acts as a data backup for all major Foundation
facilities worldwide as well as a secure meeting facility for O5 Council members
and other high-ranking Foundation personnel. As with all Protected Sites, no
anomalies of any kind are allowed in proximity of Site-01. The location of
Site-01 is strictly classified.

#### Site-5

~~Site-5 is a man-made island constructed to store hazardous materials,
currently used for the containment of SCP-001, SCP-1661, SCP-2193, SCP-2923 and
SCP-3247.~~

This document has been altered by ████████. Personnel are reminded that Site-5
does not exist.

#### Site-06-3 (Humanoid Containment Site-06-3)

Site-06-3 is a containment facility that is currently located in the Lorraine
region of France. Formerly located in the United States of America (Site-06) and
Germany (Site-06-2), this facility was moved to its current location following
the decommission and demolition of the aforementioned previous facilities.
Site-06-3 employs a multi-national staff and houses numerous low-risk human and
humanoid entities, most notably several former Foundation personnel.

### Site-11

Site-11 is a large-scale Foundation facility located in the mid-western United
States, consisting of an entire self-sustaining community including residential
housing, commercial businesses, and industrial/manufacturing facilities, as well
as an extensive underground containment and research complex. The Foundation
maintains strict tracking of all personnel and civilians within Site-11, and so
the facility is often used as a safe location for personnel requiring additional
security and protection.

### Site-15

Site-15 is a Foundation facility located on the United States west coast that
specializes in the containment and study of electric, electronic, and
computer-based anomalies. The primary storage and containment wings of Site-15
are electromagnetically isolated to prevent any interaction between anomalous
electronics and the outside world.

### Site-17

Site-17 is the second largest Foundation facility, primarily focused on the
containment and study of low-risk humanoid entities, although a small number of
more dangerous entities are also contained there. The Site has additional
capacities for the containment of inanimate objects and non-humanoid creatures.
As per its main focus, Site-17's permanent site staff includes a large number of
medical and psychiatric professionals.

### Site-18

Site-18 is a relatively small facility, primarily used for the storage and
testing of anomalous objects. The Site also has a biological sector used for the
containment of anomalous animals. Site-18 is not the Headquarters of the
Department of Disinformation.

### Site-19

Site-19 is the largest Foundation facility currently in operation, housing
hundreds of Safe- and Euclid-class anomalies, some located within additional
Facilities separate from the main Site. Site-19 also has dedicated laboratories
for the processing and storage of Anomalous Items not warranting their own
Special Containment Procedures. Site security is prioritized, since the danger
of containment breaches is heightened by the large number of anomalous objects
contained in one location.

### Site-23 (Storage Site-23)

Site-23 is used to store inanimate objects, particularly those with anomalous
metamorphic or transfiguring effects on biological entities. The site also
possesses facilities for the cryogenic containment of deceased or inactive
anomalous entities, and for anomalous animal research. Due to SCP-3085, a number
of humanoids previously housed at Site-55 had to be relocated to Site-23.

### Site-28 (Containment Site-28)

Site-28 is located in the SoHo neighborhood of New York City, New York, United
States, and was initially established to contain SCP-602. Since then, this
facility has been expanded into a full-fledged Foundation containment facility
specializing in anomalous artwork and artifacts, and staff from Site-28 have
also assisted in the containment of SCP-2409 and SCP-4198.

### Site-36

Formerly Provisional Site-36, this facility is located in India and serves as
both a regional containment site as well as a support facility for field
personnel operating in the area, supervising facilities such as Adjunct
Site-2498.

### Site-38

Site-38 is a containment site for inanimate objects in rural Tennessee, USA,
primarily focused on the study of Group of Interest Alpha-388, "Alexylva
University", although the Site's inland location has been advantageous for the
Site's Astronomy Department.

### Site-41

Site-41 is located in the forests of central Colorado, and is the headquarters
of the Antimemetics Division. The Site is used for training, research and the
storage of SCP objects that require experts in anomalous antimemes.

### Site-43 (Research and Containment Site-43)

Site-43 is situated on the southeastern shore of Lake Huron, one kilometer below
sea level in Ipperwash Provincial Park, Ontario, Canada. It comprises
containment wings for low- to medium-risk anomalies, research divisions arranged
in a pseudoacademic structure, and abatement refineries for esoteric substances.

### Site-45 (Research Site-45)

Site-45 is a clandestine armed research facility located off the coast of
Western Australia under the Indian Ocean. Here, research and temporary
containment of anomalous objects are conducted under guard and away from a
civilian populace. Site-45 also serves as a staging point for MTF operations
within the Pacific and Indian Oceans.

### Site-45

Site-45 was established as a provisional measure to contain an abnormally high
number of anomalous events in the Las Vegas district, and consists of three
connected structures. Site-45-A is disguised as an office building within city
limits, used as a base for task forces and response teams. Site-45-B is a newer
facility for housing personnel, disguised as a private mental care institution.
Site-45-C is a subterranean research facility beneath Site-45-B, and handles the
research and containment of SCP objects found in the area. Site-45-C specializes
in anomalies with ties to religion and mythology, consulting on offsite
anomalies such as SCP-2988.

### Site-54 (Integrated Containment Site-54)

Site-54 is a containment facility located in, around, and beneath the city of
Leipzig, Germany. Specializing in the containment of those anomalies deemed
'partially uncontainable', the Site's staff are heavily armed, highly trained,
and permanently on edge. Featuring an extensive rapid-response vehicle hangar
(with transport both normal and anomalous) and wide array of holding cells,
Site-54 is generally considered to be the Foundation site both best-prepared for
the worst to happen, and the location at which said worst is most likely to
occur.

### Site-55

Site-55 is located on the outskirts of Boston, Massachusetts, and is the centre
of the Foundation's research into Groups of Interest, lead by Dr. Jay Everwood.
The Site's proximity to the extradimensional Wonder World!™ Location of Interest
means that the Site is involved in the containment of a large number of Dr
Wondertainment products. The exterior of the Site is disguised as a food
cannery, and it operates as one during daytime hours.

### Site-56

Established in the Black Rock Desert of Nevada, May 1972, Site-56 was intended
to serve as the base of operations for the enactment of the Kraken Protocol
within the American Southwest. Over time, Site-56 took on increasing
responsibilities, eventually transitioning into a full-fledged containment and
administration site, responsible for select offsite anomalies such as SCP-5994
and SCP-5952. However, recent Overwatch audits suggest its expansion has
surpassed its budgetary and logistical limitations, and personnel frequently
cite its "labyrinthine" structure as a detriment to day-to-day operations.

### Site-62 (Dimensional Site-62)

Formerly Provisional Site-62, this facility was initially built around SCP-004.
The facility was eventually expanded to house other objects requiring
high-security Dimensional Containment, back up critical Foundation data, and
provide an external reference point for detecting and reporting reality shifts.

### Site-64 (Storage Site-64)

Located approximately 0.5 km below Forest Park, northwest of Portland, Oregon,
Site-64 is primarily a low to medium security storage facility, and is mainly
used to house minor anomalous items, and Safe/Euclid class objects confiscated
from the anomalous art community and anomalous electronics industry based in
Portland and Vancouver.

### Site-65

Site-65 is north of Saskatoon in the prairie fields of Saskatchewan, Canada, in
a location chosen for its isolation and vast flat area. The Site operates as a
cement factory, and forms the SCP Foundation Saskatchewan Operational Region
along with Site-173 and Site-AE7.

### Site-66 (Biological Containment Site-66, Bio-Site-66)

Originally built as Provisional Site-66 around SCP-1479, this facility was
eventually expanded to contain and research biological and organic anomalies.

### Site-73

Site-73 is a facility converted from an office building in Texas, designed for
the containment and study of inert, Safe-class, or otherwise benign anomalous
objects, including the analysis and storage of deceased specimens. The Site also
manages satellite facilities such as Storage Location 73-E.

### Site-76

(Reliquary Research and Containment Site-76) Site-76 is a major containment site
located in the United States of America, housing a large number of anomalous
objects presumed to be man-made.

### Site-77 (Storage Site-77)

One of the Foundation's largest storage facilities, Site-77 was initially built
in 1924 in southern Italy and served as an Italian facility until the second
World War, when it was damaged by Allied bombing and subsequently destroyed by a
containment breach. Site-77 was taken over by the Foundation and rebuilt
in 1944.

### Site-81 (Research and Containment Site-81)

Located beneath Lake Monroe in Bloomington, Indiana, Site-81 is the primary hub
for anomalous activity in the United States Midwest. Initially founded as an
expeditionary site to monitor SCP-2812, Site-81 has since grown to become one of
the largest sites in the region. Located within is the Foundation's
Classifications Department, as well as a massive Mobile Task Force deployment
outpost.

### Site-83

Originally established as Provisional Site-83 in Lyndhurst, New Jersey for the
containment of SCP-5967, Site-83 primarily houses Euclid and Safe class
anomalies, and so has a more laid back staff than other Foundation Sites. There
are a few Keter and Esoteric class anomalies contained within, under the
jurisdiction of the higher-clearance staff. Departments on Site include
Nomenclative Research, Multiversal Cartography, and (at least in theory) the
Theoretical Anomalies Department.

### Site-84

Bio Site-84 is a remote facility in the Australian Outback, located near Alice
Springs in the Northern Territory, and used for the containment of anomalous
animals, both native to Australia and imported in from other facilities. Despite
being located in a desert, the facility is capable of simulating and sustaining
more temperate habitats.

### Site-87 (Research Site-87)

Site-87 is a research site, established in September 1976 to oversee containment
of a minor anomaly in the town of Sloth's Pit, Wisconsin, USA (pop. 17,291 as of
2020). In that same month, researchers discovered that Sloth's Pit was a highly
active Nexus, an inhabited zone with a high concentration of anomalous
phenomena. Site-87's civilian front is S & C Plastics, and it possesses its own
Task Force— Sigma-10, "The Sloth's Arm", for containment of anomalies within
city limits. Citizens of Sloth's Pit are considered E-Class Personnel, and have
knowledge of the Foundation insofar as 'a research organization is monitoring
the town'. The primary goal of Site-87 is to research and catalog anomalies in
Sloth's Pit, such as SCP-4040; however, it is also the headquarters of the
Department of Multi-Universal Affairs, Nexological Studies, and serves as
regional command for the Midwestern USA.

### Site-88 (Humanoid Containment Site-88)

Humanoid Containment Site-88 is located in central Baldwin County, Alabama. The
site houses many humanoid SCP objects, along with several high value anomalous
items. While research is not a primary focus of the site, the site has the
capacity for it, and has seen many research projects related to its occupants.

### Site-91 (Xenobiological Research and Containment Site-91)

Established as Provisional Site-91 in 1986 shortly after the discovery of
SCP-4612 in the substructure below a manor known as Eckhart House in Yorkshire,
England. The site was fully commissioned by Overwatch command the following year
and was expanded into a full containment facility, research lab and library
focused on the containment and analysis of xenobiological specimens, with a
secondary focus of the development of thaumaturgical countermeasures and
containment of thaumaturgical artifacts. Serves as the primary station for MTF
Beta-777 (“Hecate’s Spear”).

### Site-95 (Biological Research and Containment Site-95, Bio-Site-95)

Site-95 is a small but well equipped site used to contain and research
biological and organic anomalies.

### Site-98 (Dimensional Research Site-98)

Site-98 serves as the forefront of Foundation technology. Stationed in the city
of Philadelphia, Site-98 is responsible for the bleeding-edge technological
developments and innovations that help the Foundation contain, analyze, and
research the various anomalous threats that endanger the world. Site-98 is often
considered as the most technologically-advanced research facility in the
Foundation.

### Site-103 (Biological Containment Site-103)

Site-103 has extensive facilities for the containment and research of plant and
plant-based anomalies.

### Site-104 (Biological Research Site-104)

Created for the on-site containment of SCP-628, Site-104 is operated under the
guise of a wildlife preserve and is designed for study of and experimentation on
biological anomalies with wide-ranging effects.

### Site-118

Site-118 is a subterranean containment facility beneath the Sonoran Desert,
Arizona. Due to its remote location, most staff stay on site for months at a
time, and so the Site is used for extended and detailed research into SCP
objects, including a small number of highly dangerous Keter Class Objects.
Foundation astronomers on-site are also able to make use of nearby civilian
observatories for covert research into extraplanetary anomalies.

### Site-120 (Research and Reliquary Dimensional Containment Site-120)

Built atop SCP-5292 near the city of Częstochowa, Poland, Site-120 specializes
in thaumaturgic, ontokinetic, and theological anomalies, utilizing unusual
containment methods to deal with them. Being one of the few Sites actively
encouraging the usage of the anomalous, it acts as the main observation point
for the Free Port of Esterberg.

### Site-184

Located in Nova Scotia, Site-184 serves two simultaneous purposes. As the
primary Research & Containment site on the East Coast of Canada, it hosts
cutting-edge facilities such as the Applied Metaphysics Research Laboratories,
the innovatively designed Aquatic Anomalies facilities, and the Anomalous Art &
Artefacts wing — as well as several satellite sites, such as Mobile Site-184_A.
Additionally, the Site functions as the primary command center and shipyard for
the Foundation’s naval presence in the North-West Atlantic, overseeing
ocean-based Search & Rescue, Salvage, Anomaly Containment, Force Projection, and
Research operations. The responsibility for balancing these two (at times
conflicting) structural frameworks falls on Director Barrett, while the
Foundation researchers and naval personnel maintain the illusion of operating a
mundane shipyard and naval research facility.

### Site-228

Site-228 is a major Central European containment facility, and one of the first
Foundation facilities to be located in Hungary. It was originally designed for
humanoid containment, but following modernization it is now also capable of
containing sapient non-humanoid entities.

### Site-234

Site-234 is the Foundation's center for biomedical research and for the
containment of Micro, Molecular, and Biochemical anomalies, located outside of
Birmingham, Alabama. Although it one of the Foundation's youngest facilities,
constructed in the fall of 1983, it is also one of the largest, containing more
than 200 anomalies, housing 1000 personnel on site, and employing another 8000
that commute in. To enable biohazardous anomalies to be safely studied, the
facility possesses various laboratories built to different Biosafety Level
standards, with 13 at BSL-4, 26 at BSL-3, and more than 200 at BSL-2.

### Site-246

Site-246 is located beneath Lake Superior, and was the regional command site for
the North American Great Lakes operations area until the establishment of
Site-87. The Site was later reactivated to serve as the headquarters for MTF
Delta-3 ("Solomon's Hand") as part of the Special Asset Task Force Program.
After Delta-3 was disbanded following the loss of its primary special asset,
Site-246 was downgraded once again, and is now mainly used as a training center,
submarine dry dock, and underwater research facility.

### Site-322

Located outside of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Site-322 specializes in the
containment of sapient anomalies, as well as monitoring select offsite
anomalies. Its unique contribution to the Foundation is its Integration Program,
inspired by the discoveries of SCP-5031, which employs anomalies for their
various abilities should they be found useful to the Foundation.

### Site-666

Site-666 is a large-scale research, containment, and staging site, publicly
known as the Luxor Las Vegas. The Site lies within the anomalous hotspot of
Undervegas, anchoring the Las Vegas Strip to baseline reality. The Site
primarily deals with anomalies in the Las Vegas/Paradise region, but
occasionally serves outlying areas. Due to its unique position, Site-666 heavily
utilizes mutually-beneficial agreements with anomalies, including their
employment, and other forms of "creative containment".

## Areas

### Area-02 (Armed Reliquary and Containment Area-02)

Area-02 is a remote facility whose primary purpose is to contain highly
dangerous, hostile, or otherwise hazardous anomalies, including multiple
Keter-class objects. In addition to a battalion-strength security detachment,
Area-02 is also equipped with multiple nuclear fail-safes as a final option in
the case of a catastrophic breach or loss of containment.

### Area-12 (Biological Research Area-12)

Area-12 is a containment and research facility located on remote federal land in
the Midwestern United States. Area-12 contains both live specimens of anomalous
biological entities under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parazoology, as
well as samples of biohazardous or otherwise dangerous biological anomalies for
study.

### Area-14 (Armed Biological Containment Area-14)

Area-14 is a dedicated containment facility located in the Ruby Mountains of
Nevada, USA. Area-14 is primarily used for large-scale, dangerous, and/or
hostile anomalous entities and as such is staffed with a regiment-strength
security detachment as well as heavy weapons, armored vehicles, and air support.
Serves as the primary station for AMTF Nu-7 (“Hammer Down”).

### Area-27 (Reliquary Area-27)

Area-27 is an underground facility operating beneath the Saint Notre-Dame
Cathedral Basilica in Ontario, Canada. Area-27's main purpose is to serve as
both headquarters for the Department of Tactical Theology and as emergency
quartering in the case of a large-scale K-Class Scenario. The site is also
capable of containing primarily religiously-orientated anomalies and the
development of theological weaponry.

Objects located at this facility include SCP-5502 and SCP-5993.

### Area-32 (Lunar Area-32)

Comprised of several floors beneath the surface of Mare Imbrium and built around
the ninth destination point of SCP-120, Lunar Area-32 is a facility used to
contain immobile anomalies present on the lunar surface, or anomalies that are
significantly less hazardous to contain beyond Earth’s atmosphere.

### Area-179

Formerly Provisional Containment Area-179, created for the containment of
SCP-1179, this facility is located in Pennsylvania, United States. The site
functions as one of the Foundation’s largest hubs for humanoid object
containment, research, and integration. In addition to storing and researching
recovered anomalous objects, the Area also supervises nearby Sites such as
Site-5076-1.
