---
title: Task Forces
part: 6
attribution:
  ogTitle: "Mobile Task Forces"
  adapted: true
---

Mobile Task Forces (MTFs) are elite units comprised of personnel drawn from
across the Foundation and are mobilized to deal with specific threats or
situations that sometimes exceed the operational capacity or expertise of
regular field personnel and — as their name suggests — may be relocated between
facilities or locations as they are needed. Mobile Task Force personnel
represent the "best of the best" of the Foundation.

Mobile Task Forces vary greatly in size, composition, and purpose. A
battalion-strength combat-oriented task force trained to deal with highly
aggressive anomalous entities may consist of hundreds of troops plus support
personnel, vehicles, and equipment and can be deployed in whole or in part to
deal with threats across the globe. However, a Mobile Task Force can also be a
small, specialized intelligence-gathering or investigative task force that may
have fewer than a dozen personnel if that is deemed sufficient to accomplish
their goals.

While in the field, task force members often pose as emergency responders, local
or federal law enforcement, or military personnel appropriate to the region in
which they are operating. Mobile Task Force Commanders can also request the
assistance of local field units or personnel stationed at nearby Foundation
facilities in order to accomplish their missions.

## Organization

Each unit is fundamentally structured in a way that best suits their intended
purpose. While combat-oriented task forces may closely follow military hierarchy
and organization, smaller units may have an informal or otherwise esoteric chain
of command. As such, the responsibilities of the Mobile Task Force Commander
(MTFC) for each particular task force can vary greatly; the commander for a
large task force might focus on maintaining multiple teams and deploying them as
necessary to each assigned operation, whereas the commander of a small team
might deploy with their team and direct the operation from on location.

Similarly, the cohesion of each unit will vary as well. Some Mobile Task Forces
consist of personnel who have trained and worked for many years or even decades
together, whereas the personnel of a Mobile Task Force formed on a moment's
notice to deal with a specific incident may know little more than each others'
names and fields of expertise.

## Creation

Mobile Task Forces are typically commissioned as deemed necessary by the
Foundation's Director of Task Forces, often with the direct approval of one or
more O5 Council members. A significant number of Mobile Task Forces are created
to deal with specific anomalies exhibiting traits that standard containment or
response teams are unable to effectively counteract, though many were also
created to pre-empt an emerging or theoretical threat.

## Deactivation

Mobile Task Forces created for the purpose of containing a particular anomaly
are typically deactivated at the end of the recovery operation or when ongoing
containment is deemed no longer necessary. Occasionally, such task forces remain
operational if the expertise and experiences learned are considered useful for
future incidents, but otherwise the task force will likely be disbanded and its
personnel returned to their prior posts. Very rarely, a Mobile Task Force will
also be disbanded if it suffers sufficient casualties to render it incapable of
operation. In these cases, if the prior capability of that particular task force
is deemed necessary, a new task force may be commissioned to replace it.

## Task Force List

---

### MTF Alpha-1 ("Red Right Hand")

<Figure
  align="left"
  publicId="orientation/task-forces/alpha-1_qfdobm.png"
  width={180}
  height={180}
  alt="MTF Alpha-1"
/>

**Task Force Mission:** Mobile Task Force Alpha-1 is a task force that reports directly to the O5 Council and is used in situations that require the strictest operational security. The task force consists of the Foundation's best and most loyal operatives, and serves as the O5 Council's special operations unit. Further information regarding MTF Alpha-1 is classified Level 5.

---

### MTF Echo-11 ("Nine-Tailed Fox")

**Task Force Mission:** Mobile Task Force Echo-11 handles internal security
for the SCP Foundation, under oversight by MTF Alpha-1. They are a special ops
force deployed to Foundation Sites when standard protocols fail and multiple
breaches are imminent. As such, most of their operations are classified.

---

### MTF Tango-5 ("Samsara")

**Task Force Mission:** Immortal cyborg clones created from the flesh of a dead
god, Tango-5 utilizes esoteric and experimental Foundation weaponry to
investigate and contain thaumaturgic, magical, and psionic threats.

---

**Further MTF Listings are classified Level █.**
